# SSH CA configuration for suriar.net

## OVERVIEW
This module installs the bare minimum configuration to enable remote login to a
target machine with a cert signed by the `suriar.net` SSH CA.

## USAGE

    root@newhost# aptitude install git puppet
    root@newhost# git clone https://github.com/msuriar/puppet-config
    root@newhost# puppet apply --modulepath = ./puppet-config/modules \
      <(echo 'include ssh_ca_cfg')

    muz@existinghost$ ssh newhost.suriar.net -i <signed_ssh_cert>

NOTE: assuming `newhost` is a brand new machine, `muz@existinghost` will still be
prompted to validate `newhost`'s host key. Longer term, the plan is to have
either the machine install process or this initial bootstrap generate CSRs for
all the hosts SSH host keys with the CA.

## DETAILS

This is pretty verbose for a bootstrap. Details of what's being done along
with some thoughts/justification follow.

### SET UP NON-ROOT USER

- Install `sudo`.
- Override `/etc/sudoers`:
  - Sets members of `%sudo` to not require a password when running commands.
- Create non-root user `muz`:
  - Ensure it has no password.
  - Ensure it's a member of the `sudo` group.
  - Ensure that `sudo` is installed (otherwise the `sudo` group won't have been
    created.

Since we're accepting certs signed by a CA for login, there's no reason to
assume that the remote user has any idea what the local password is. Therefore,
configure `sudo` to not require a password, and ensure that there is no local
password configured for this account.

### SSH CONFIGURATION

- Install SSH(!)
- Copy the suriar.net SSH CA public key to `/etc/ssh/ca.suriar.net.pub`.
- Override `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`:
  - Disable `root` logins.
  - Instructs `sshd` to accept certs signed by `ca.suriar.net.pub`.
  - Instructs `sshd` to offer signed versions of its host keys, if they exist.
  - Instructs `puppet` to reload `sshd`'s configuration if this file changes.
